About Dataset
Emo-DB Database
The EMODB database is the freely available German emotional database. The database is created by the Institute of Communication Science, Technical University,
 Berlin, Germany. Ten professional speakers (five males and five females) participated in data recording. The database contains a total of 535 utterances.
 The EMODB database comprises of seven emotions: 1) anger; 2) boredom; 3) anxiety; 4) happiness; 5) sadness; 6) disgust; and 7) neutral. The data was recorded 
at a 48-kHz sampling rate and then down-sampled to 16-kHz.

Additional Information
Every utterance is named according to the same scheme:

Positions 1-2: number of speaker
Positions 3-5: code for text
Position 6: emotion (sorry, letter stands for german emotion word)
Position 7: if there are more than two versions these are numbered a, b, c ....
Example: 03a01Fa.wav is the audio file from Speaker 03 speaking text a01 with the emotion "Freude" (Happiness).

Information about the speakers
03 - male, 31 years old
08 - female, 34 years
09 - female, 21 years
10 - male, 32 years
11 - male, 26 years
12 - male, 30 years
13 - female, 32 years
14 - female, 35 years
15 - male, 25 years
16 - female, 31 years

Code of emotions:
letter	emotion 	(english)	letter emotion (german)
A	anger		W	           	Ärger (Wut)
B	boredom		L	  		Langeweile
D	disgust		E			Ekel
F	anxiety/fear	A			Angst
H	happiness	F			Freude
S	sadness		T			Trauer
N = neutral version

Inspiration
EMOTION classification from speech has an increasing interest in the field of the speech processing area. 
The objective of the emotion classification is to classify different emotions from the speech signal.
 A person’s emotional state affects the production mechanism of speech, and due to this, breathing rate and
 muscle tension change from the neutral condition. Therefore, the resulting speech signal may have different
 characteristics from that of neutral speech.

The performance of speech recognition or speaker recognition decreases significantly if the model is trained 
with neutral speech and it is tested with an emotional speech. So we as a Machine Learning Enthusiast can start
 working on speaker emotion recognition problems and can come up with some good robust models.